# nl4c00576_si_002

> **Source**: ..\paper\nl4c00576_si_002.pdf
> **Pages**: 26
> **Characters**: 15970
> **Converted**: 2026-03-09 22:10:03

---

Supporting Information
Direct Eight-Electron N O Electroreduction to NH  Enabled
2 3
by a Fe Double-Atom Catalyst
₁, ₃#
₂#₃
₃₂
* ₁, ₃
Donghai Wu , Kai Chen , Peng Lv , Ziyu Ma , Ke Chu , Dongwei Ma *
₁Anhui Province Industrial Generic Technology Research Center for Alumics Materials, School of
Physics and Electronic Information, Huaibei Normal University, Huaibei, Anhui 235000, China
₂School of Materials Science and Engineering, Lanzhou Jiaotong University, Lanzhou 730070,
China
₃Key Laboratory for Special Functional Materials of Ministry of Education, and School of
Materials Science and Engineering, Henan University, Kaifeng 475004, China
#These authors contributed equally to this work.
*Corresponding author. E-mail: chuk630@mail.lzjtu.cn (K. Chu).
*Corresponding author. E-mail: dwmachina@126.com (D. Ma).

## S-1

## Experimental section

## Synthesis of Fe₂@NG DAC

1186 mg of Zn(NO₃)₂·6H O and 30 mg of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide₂
were  dissolved  in  40  mL  of  deionized  water,  forming  solution  A.  18.16  g  of
2-methylimidazole was dissolved in 280 mL of deionized water, forming solution B.
The solution A and solution B are mixed, followed by stirring at 900 rpm for 20 min.
The resulting mixture was subjected to centrifugation at 5000 rpm for 5 minutes,
followed by overnight vacuum-drying at 80 ℃ to yield a white powder. Subsequently,
2.1 mg of cyclopentadienyliron dicarbonyl dimer (Fe dimer) was dissolved in 150 mL
of dimethyl formamide, followed by adding 150 mg of the aforementioned white
powder. The mixture was stirred at room temperature under 800 rpm for 12 h. The
solid sample formed was collected by centrifugation and then dried under vacuum at
80 ℃ for 6 h. This solid sample (120 mg) was introduced into a solution of 300 ml
Tris-HCl (0.05:0.015 M) and treated in an ultrasonic bath for 25 min. Afterwards, 45
mg of dopamine hydrochloride was added, and the suspension was subjected to a
further  10  min  treatment  in  the  ultrasonic  bath,  followed  by  stirring  at  room
temperature for 6 h. After a subsequent centrifugal separation, a black powder was
obtained and vacuum-dried at 80 ℃ for 6 hours. Finally, the black powder was
annealed in an argon flow at 900 ℃ for 1 h, obtaining Fe₂@NG DAC.
Electrochemical experiments
Electrochemical  measurements  were  tested  on  a  CHI-660E  electrochemical
workstation in a three-electrode configuration including working electrode (catalyst
coated on carbon cloth (CC, 1 × 1 cm₂), reference electrode (Ag/AgCl), and counter
electrode (graphite rod). The CC substrate was pretreated by soaking it in 0.5 M
H₂SO  for 12 h, and then washed with deionized water several times and dried at 60₄
ₒC for 24 h. To prepare working electrode, 200 μg catalyst and 5 μL of Nafion (5 wt%)
were ultrasonically dispersed in 95 μL of ethyl alcohol to form a homogeneous ink.
Then 50 μL of catalyst ink was loaded on a 1 × 1 cm₂ CC substrate and dried under
ambient condition. All potentials were referenced to a reversible hydrogen electrode
(RHE) by E (V vs. RHE) = E (V vs. Ag/AgCl) + 0.198 V + 0.059 × pH. The N₂ORR
measurements were conducted in N₂O-saturated 0.5 M Na SO  solution using a₂
₄
gas-tight H-type cell separated by Nafion 211 membrane. Prior to N₂ORR test, the
cathodic compartment was purged with N₂O for at least 30 min to remove the residual

## S-2

oxygen. During the chronoamperometry test, a flow of N₂O (99.99%) with a rate of
20  mL  min₋₁  was  continuously  fed  to  the  cathodic  compartment.  After  each
electrolysis for 1 h, the aqueous and gas products were detected by the colorimetric

## method and gas chromatography (GC, Shimadzu GC2010), respectively.₁

Flow  cell  measurements  were  carried  out  using  a  commercial  flow  cell
electrolyser (101017, Gaoss Union Technology Co., LTD) comprising a gas chamber,
cathode, and anode compartments (Fig. R3a). To prepare working electrode, catalyst
inks, consisting of 3 mg of catalyst and 20 μL of Nafion (5 wt %) in 3 mL of ethyl
alcohol, were sonicated for over 30 min and were drop-casted onto a gas diffusion
electrode (GDE, Sigracet 39 BC) to obtain 0.1 mg cm₋₂ loading of catalyst. The side
of the GDE that is loaded with catalyst was in contact with the cathode chamber,
while  the  back  side  was  in  contact  with  the  gas  chamber.  A  proton  exchange
membrane (PEM, Nafion 211) measuring 35 × 15 mm₂ was used to separate the
cathode and anode chambers. Nickel mesh was used as the anode, and Ag/AgCl
served as the reference electrode. Prior to N²ORR test, the cathodic compartment was
purged with N₂O for at least 30 min to remove residual oxygen. During the N ORR₂
test, NO was passed directly into the gas chamber at a rate of 20 mL min₋₁, and the
electrolyte was continuously cycled through the cathode chamber at a rate of 25 mL
min₋₁ under pump drive.
Calculations of NH₃ yield rate and Faradaic efficiency
NH₃ yield rate = (c × V) / (t × A)                   (1)
FE = (4 × F ×c × V) / Q × 100%                   (2)
where c (μg mL₋₁) is the measured NH₃ concentration, V (mL) is the volume of
electrolyte in the cathode chamber (35 mL), t (s) is the electrolysis time, A is the₂
surface area of working electrodes (1 × 1 cm ), F (96500 C mol₋₁) is the Faraday
constant, Q (C) is the total quantity of applied electricity.

## Characterizations

The inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) was
performed on a PerkinElmer AVIO 500 spectrometer. Spherical aberration-corrected
high-angle  annular  dark-field  scanning  transmission  electron  microscopy
(AC-HAADF-STEM) was performed on a Titan Cubed Themis G₂ 300 microscope.

## Theoretical calculation section

All spin-polarized calculations were carried out by the generalized gradient

## S-3

approximation  (GGA)  method  with  Perdewe-Burke-Ernzerhof  (PBE)  functional₂
based on density functional theory (DFT) as implemented by the Vienna ab-initio
Simulation Package (VASP),₃ in which the van der Waals (vdW) correction was
described with the DFT+D₃ method in Grimme’s scheme.₄ The plane-wave basis set
with a cut-off energy of 450 eV was employed. The convergence thresholds of the
total energy and the Hellmann-Feynman force are 10₋₅ eV and 0.02 eV/Å, respectively.
A 7 × 7 graphene supercell with a vacuum layer of ~18 Å was used to avoid the
interactions  between  periodic  images  for  all  calculations.  The  Monkhorst-Pack
meshes of 3 × 3 × 1 and 7 × 7 × 1 were adopted for structural optimization and the
calculation of densities of states (DOS), respectively. The electron transfer was
measured based on Bader analysis.₅
According to the computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) model,₆ the free
energy change (∆G) for each elementary reaction step can be calculated by following
equation:
∆G = ∆E + ∆EZPE - T∆S                      (3)
where, ∆E is the reaction energy from DFT calculations, ∆EZPE and T∆S (T = 298.15
K) are the contributions of the zero-point energy and entropy, respectively. EZPE and
TS for the free molecules are taken from the NIST database,₇ and those for the
adsorbed  species  are  obtained  based  on  the  calculated  vibrational  frequencies
postprocessing by the VASPKIT code.₈ And the corresponding values are listed in
Table S₃. The limiting potential (UL) is defined as -∆G /e, where ∆G  is the freeₘₐₓ
ₘₐₓ
energy change of the potential-determining step (PDS). Here the UL is taken as⁰ V
when ∆Gₘₐₓ value is negative.
The formation energy (Ef) and binding energy (E ) of the TM @NG DACs can
b₂
be calculated as follows:
Ef = E(total) - 6μ(N) - 88μ(C) - 2μ(TM)                    (4)
Eb = E(total) - E(NG) - 2E(TM)                    (5)
where μ(TM), μ(N), and μ(C) are the chemical potential of the involved species,
which is taken from the TM bulk, N₂ molecules, and graphene, respectively; E(total),
E(NG), and E(TM) are the total energies of DAC system, N-doped porous graphene
substrate, and isolated TM atom, respectively. Note that the adopted DAC model
consists of 88 C, 6 N, and 2 TM atoms.

## S-4

Fig. S₁. Calculated formation energy (Ef) of the studied TM₂@NG DACs, where the
shadow fills denote the experimentally synthesized systems.

## S-5

Fig. S₂. Calculated binding energy (Eb) of the studied TM₂@NG DACs.

## S-6

Fig. S₃. Calculated total DOS (TDOS) of the studied TM₂@NG DACs. The vertical
dashed lines denote Fermi level (EF).

## S-7

Fig. S₄. The possible initial configurations for N₂O adsorption on the TM₂@NG
DACs.

## S-8

Fig. S₅. The most stable configurations for N₂O adsorption on the TM₂@NG DACs.
The corresponding adsorption free energy (ΔG), bond angle of *N²O, and bond length
of N-N in *N₂O are also given.

## S-9

Fig. S₆. Relationship between limiting potential (UL) and the adsorption free energy
of N₂O (ΔG(*N O)) for the studied TM₂@NG DACs.
₂

## S-10

Fig. S₇. Relationship between limiting potential (UL) and the d-band center (ε ) of the
d
TM₂ active center for the studied TM₂@NG DACs.

## S-11

Fig. S₈. Relationship between limiting potential (UL) and the polarized charge (ΔQ,
i.e., the number of electrons that the TM₂ have lost when forming DACs) of the TM₂
active center for the studied TM₂@NG DACs.

## S-12

Fig. S₉. Free energy diagram (a) and corresponding intermediate configurations (b)
for N₂ORR on V₂@NG DAC. The cyan highlights the ΔG of PDS.

## S-13

Fig. S₁₀. Free energy diagram (a) and corresponding intermediate configurations (b)
for N₂ORR on Cr₂@NG DAC. The cyan highlights the ΔG of PDS.

## S-14

Fig. S₁₁. Free energy diagram (a) and corresponding intermediate configurations (b)
for N₂ORR on Mn₂@NG DAC. The cyan highlights the ΔG of PDS.

## S-15

Fig. S₁₂. Free energy diagram (a) and corresponding intermediate configurations (b)
for N₂ORR on Co₂@NG DAC. The cyan highlights the ΔG of PDS.

## S-16

Fig. S₁₃. (a) IC spectra of the electrolyte in the gas-tight H-cell for detecting the
possible liquid N-contaminants after 30 min of N₂O purging. (b) GC spectra of the
gas-tight H-cell for detecting the possible gaseous N-contaminants after 30 min of
N₂O purging.
Since the N²O used in this work has a high purity (99.99%), no further purging was
performed  before  electrochemical  test.  To  verify  this,  we  have  used  ion
chromatography  (IC)  and  gas  chromatography  (GC)  to  detect  the  possible₋
liquid/gaseous N-contaminants (NH₃, NO, NO₃ and NO ₋) in the electrolyte after 30
₂
min  of  N²O  purging.  As  displayed  in  Fig.  S₁₃,  neither  liquid  N-contaminants₊
₋
(NH₄ /NO /NO ₋,  Fig.  S13a)  nor  gaseous  N-contaminant  (NO,  Fig.  S13b)  are₂
₃
detected, indicating that the NH³ synthesized during the electrolysis originates from
the  N₂ORR  process  on  Fe₂@NG  rather  than  from  the  reduction  of  other
N-contaminants or NH₃ impurities.

## S-17

Fig. S₁₄. (a) UV-vis absorption spectra of NH₄Cl assays after incubated for 2 h at
ambient  conditions.  (b)  Calibration  curve  used  for  the  calculation  of  NH₃
concentrations.

## S-18

Fig. S₁₅. Partial current densities of various products at different potentials. Partial
current density of each product is calculated as FE multiplies by the total current
density.

## S-19

Fig. S₁₆. Characterizations of FeN₄ SAC: (a) AC-HAADF-STEM image. (b) Fe
K-edge EXAFS spectra and (d) WT contour map. (c) EXAFS fitting curve (inset is
the fitting model).
The AC-HAADF-STEM image (Fig. S16a) shows the atomically dispersed Fe (bright
dots) on NG matrix. As revealed in the Fe K-edge EXAFS spectra (Fig. S16b), FeN₄
SAC presents a prominent peak at 1.45 Å assigned to Fe-N bond, while the Fe-Fe
bond is absent, further confirming the atomic dispersion of Fe atoms on carbon matrix.
The same results are reveled in the WT contour map of FeN₄ SAC (Fig. S16d). The
EXAFS quantitative fitting result (Fig. S16c and Table S₂) unveils that the Fe
coordination number of FeN₄ SAC is  ∼4, suggesting that atomic Fe exists as the
Fe₁-N₄ moieties (Fig. S16c, inset).

## S-20

Fig. S₁₇. (a) Chronoamperometry test of FeN₄ SAC. (b) FEs and corresponding (c)
partial current densities of N₂ and NH  products on FeN  SAC.₃
₄

## S-21

Fig. S₁₈. (a) Chronoamperometry test at various potentials on Fe₂@NG in flow cell.
(b) FEs of various products on Fe₂@NG in flow cell. (c) FEs of various products on
Fe₂@NG in H cell.
It is observed that FEN₂ of Fe₂@NG increases obviously in the flow cell (Fig. S18b)
compared to that in the H-cell (Fig. S18c). This can be attributed to the higher N₂O
coverage on the catalyst surface (using GDE) in flow cell, which promotes the
kinetics of N₂ synthesis. Ko et al.’s work (J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2022, 144, 1258-1266.)
demonstrated that the coupled N-N and single-N products are favored at high and low
NO coverages, respectively, which are similar to our results. However, in flow cell,
the  primary  product  on  Fe₂@NG  remains  NH₃ rather  than  N   due  to  the
₂
thermodynamic favorability of NH₃ synthesis over N  synthesis on Fe₂@NG.
₂

## S-22

Table S₁. The distance between two TM atoms (d), charge transfer from TM² dimers
to NG substrate (Q), and total spin magnetic moments (M) of anchored TM² dimers
for the pristine TM₂@NG DACs.
Systems d (Å) Q (e) M (μB)

## V₂@NG 2.42 2.74 6.07

Cr₂@NG 2.57 2.41 8.37
Mn₂@NG 2.44 2.37 7.03
Fe₂@NG 2.22 2.01 4.71
Co₂@NG 2.25 1.58 2.47
Ni₂@NG 2.37 1.46 0
Cu₂@NG 2.40 1.56 0.45

## S-23

Table  S₂.  Structural  parameters  extracted  from  the  Fe  K-edge  EXAFS  fitting,
including the coordination number (CN), interatomic distance (R), Debye-Waller
factor (σ₂), edge-energy shift (ΔE₀), and R factor used to value the goodness of the
fitting.
σ₂
Samples Shell CN R (Å) ₋₃ ΔE₀ (eV) R factor

## (10 Å)

FeN₄ SAC Fe-N 3.98 1.93 4.9 1.9 0.008
Fe₂@NG  Fe-N 4.05 1.97 5.4 2.5 0.011
DAC Fe-Fe 0.92 2.41 4.0 3.1 0.006

## S-24

Table S₃. Calculated zero-point energy (EZPE) and the product (TS) of temperature (T
= 298.15 K) and entropy (S) of different species along the reaction pathway for
N₂ORR on the studied TM₂@NG DACs, where * represents the adsorption site.
Species EZPE (eV) TS (eV)

## *N₂O 0.31 0.15

## *NNOH 0.62 0.12

## *NONH 0.59 0.13

## *NN*OH 0.58 0.22

## *NN 0.22 0.13

## *NNH*OH 0.83 0.26

## *NO*NH₂ 0.85 0.11

## *NO 0.18 0.07

## *NOH 0.45 0.06

## *NHO 0.5 0.07

## *NNH₂*OH 1.08 0.13

## *N*OH 0.41 0.08

## *NH*OH 0.7 0.10

## *NH₂*OH 1.04 0.15

## *OH 0.36 0.09

## *HNOH 0.82 0.13

## *NH 0.39 0.04

## *NH₂ 0.70 0.08

H₂O (l) 0.56 0.67
N₂O (g) 0.29 0.68
N₂ (g) 0.15 0.59
H₂ (g) 0.27 0.40
NO (g) 0.12 0.65
NH₃ (g) 0.89 0.60

## S-25

## References

(1) Leng, K.; Zhang, J.; Wang, Y.; Li, D.; Bai, L.; Shi, J.; Li, X.; Zheng, L.; Bai, J.; Qu, Y. Interfacial
Cladding Engineering Suppresses Atomic Thermal Migration to Fabricate Well-Defined Dual-Atom
Electrocatalysts. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2205637.
(2) Perdew, J. P.; Burke, K.; Ernzerhof, M. Generalized Gradient Approximation Made Simple. Phys.
Rev. Lett. 1996, 77, 3865-3868.
(3) Kresse, G.; Furthmüller, J. Efficient iterative schemes for ab initio total-energy calculations using
a plane-wave basis set. Phys. Rev. B 1996, 54, 11169-11186.
(4) Grimme, S.; Antony, J.; Ehrlich, S.; Krieg, H. A consistent and accurate ab initio parametrization
of density functional dispersion correction (DFT-D) for the 94 elements H-Pu. J. Chem. Phys. 2010,
132, 154104.
(5) Henkelman, G.; Arnaldsson, A.; Jónsson, H. A fast and robust algorithm for Bader decomposition
of charge density. Comp. Mater. Sci. 2006, 36, 354-360.
(6) Nørskov, J. K.; Rossmeisl, J.; Logadottir, A.; Lindqvist, L.; Kitchin, J. R.; Bligaard, T.; Jónsson,
H. Origin of the Overpotential for Oxygen Reduction at a Fuel-Cell Cathode. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004,
108, 17886-17892.
(7) http://webbook.nist.gov/chemistry/.
(8) Wang, V.; Xu, N.; Liu, J.-C.; Tang, G.; Geng, W.-T. VASPKIT: A user-friendly interface
facilitating high-throughput computing and analysis using VASP code. Comput. Phys. Commun. 2021,
267, 108033.

## S-26